Cholesterol is in all the cells in your body.
Your body needs some cholesterol to build healthy cells,
make hormones, and make substances that help you digest foods.
Your body makes all the cholesterol it needs.
Additional cholesterol in your body comes from the food you eat.
Foods from animals like meat, poultry
and full-fat dairy products all contain cholesterol.
Foods that are high in saturated fats,
trans fats and some tropical oils
can also trigger your body to make more cholesterol.
High cholesterol can increase your risk of
heart disease, heart attack, and stroke.
There are two types of cholesterol:
LDL cholesterol, which is bad
and HDL, which is good.
High levels of HDL, or good cholesterol,
seem to lower the risk of heart disease
as well as help remove other forms of
cholesterol from your bloodstream.
LDL cholesterol, or bad cholesterol,
sticks to the inside of arteries
forming thick, fatty deposits.
Eventually these deposits grow,
blocking or slowing blood flow.
Sometimes, those deposits can break
and form a blood clot.
This blocks the artery and causes a heart attack or stroke.
High cholesterol doesn’t usually have any symptoms.
A blood test is the only way to detect if you have it.
Dietary changes, regular exercise,
and sometimes medication can help reduce high cholesterol.
If you have high cholesterol,
your doctor may prescribe statins.
Statins are a class of drugs that
help lower cholesterol levels in the blood.
Statins work by blocking the production of LDL,
resulting in reduced LDL cholesterol levels in the blood.